README.md, before:

# Toast-RV32i

- Toast is a RISC-V soft core written in fully synthesizable SystemVerilog that implements a subset of the RV32I ISA.

- Goals: 

     - Produce a core that is capable of running the RV32ui unit tests from official [riscv-tests](https://github.com/riscv/riscv-tests) repo
     - Utilize synthesizable SystemVerilog features
     - Gain familiarity with Linux environment

- Stretch Goals:
     - Formal Verification
     - Interface the core with a UART peripheral and display
     some text on a PC terminal
     - Add Zicsr extension support
     - Add ISR handling



- Toast currently is capable of passing all RV32ui unit tests, however Toast has not been tested on hardware until updated here.

- Toast does not support interrupt handling, nor the CSR, FENCE, EBREAK, or ECALL instructions.


<h1> Files in this Repository </h1>

__/Documentation__
- Contains datapath diagrams and notes

__/Mem__
- Contains memory initialization hex files for riscv-tests 

__/Scripts__
- Contains shell scripts to compile, link, and generate memory files from the riscv-tests, as well as a script to run tests and dump vcd from vivado

__/Sources__
- Contains all source files for Toastcore and UART peripheral (WIP)

__/Test__
- Contains the riscv-tests, testbenches to either run an individual test or the entire battery of tests, GTKwave translate filter files/processes, and the vcd outputs for each test

<h1> Performance </h1>

|Instruction | CPI|
|------------|----|
Direct Jump (JAL) | 3
Indirect Jump (JALR) | 3
ALU reg-reg | 3
ALU reg-imm | 3
Cond. Branch (Not Taken) | 3
Cond. Branch (Taken) | 5
Memory Load | 5
Memory Store | 4



<h1> Memory Interface </h1>

Toast uses a simple memory interface driving DIN, ADDR, WE, and RST lines. The memory data bus is 32-bits wide for both instruction and data memory.

The instruction memory is word-addressable, and the data memory is byte-addressable using byte-enables.

Commit message:

verilog conversion
Converted all source files to verilog from systemverilog.
This was done primarily because tools I want to learn such as Verilator and Icarus Verilog are janky with their systemverilog support. I wasn't using enough systemverilog features in my rtl to justify it anyway.

- converted logic types to reg and wires
- renamed toast_def_pkg to toast_definitions.vh
- updated readme

README.md, after:

# Toast-RV32i

- Toast is a RISC-V soft core written in Verilog that implements a subset of the RV32I ISA.

- Goals: 

     - Produce a core that is capable of running the RV32ui unit tests from official [riscv-tests](https://github.com/riscv/riscv-tests) repo
     - Gain familiarity with open-source verification tools 
     - Gain familiarity with Linux environment 

- Stretch Goals:
     - Memory-mapped I/O and UART peripheral
     - Add Zicsr extension support
     - Add ISR handling
     - Formal Verification



- Toast currently is capable of passing all RV32ui unit tests, however Toast has not been tested on hardware until updated here.

- Toast does not support interrupt handling, nor the CSR, FENCE, EBREAK, or ECALL instructions.

- There is a version of Toast that passes all unit tests that is written in SystemVerilog and that has passed synthesis with no errors at commit c77c9e9. 
  All source code has since been converted to Verilog to better work with the tools.

<h1> Files in this Repository </h1>

__/Documentation__
- Contains datapath diagrams and notes

__/Mem__
- Contains memory initialization hex files for riscv-tests 

__/Scripts__
- Contains shell scripts to compile, link, and generate memory files from the riscv-tests, as well as a script to run tests and dump vcd from vivado

__/Sources__
- Contains all source files for Toastcore and UART peripheral (WIP)

__/Test__
- Contains the riscv-tests, testbenches to either run an individual test or the entire battery of tests, GTKwave translate filter files/processes, and the vcd outputs for each test

<h1> Performance </h1>

|Instruction | CPI|
|------------|----|
Direct Jump (JAL) | 3
Indirect Jump (JALR) | 3
ALU reg-reg | 3
ALU reg-imm | 3
Cond. Branch (Not Taken) | 3
Cond. Branch (Taken) | 5
Memory Load | 5
Memory Store | 4



<h1> Memory Interface </h1>

Toast uses a simple memory interface driving DIN, ADDR, WE, and RST lines. The memory data bus is 32-bits wide for both instruction and data memory.

The instruction memory is word-addressable, and the data memory is byte-addressable using byte-enables.
