docs/instruction_fetch.rst, before:

.. _instruction_fetch:

Instruction Fetch Stage (IF)
============================

The Instruction Fetch stage (:file:`rtl/toast_IF_stage`) drives the instruction memory interface and fetches new instructions for the pipeline. The instruction memory is word-addressable and misaligned access is not allowed.

The boot address on initialization or reset can be set via **boot_addr_i**.

Normal Operation:
-----------------

.. figure:: images/IF.png
    :name: if_timing
    :align: center

As seen in the timing diagram, the IF stage places instruction addresses on the **IMEM_addr_o** bus. On the next clock edge, the instruction memory places the corresponding instruction on the **IMEM_data_i** bus. 

The instruction address on **IMEM_addr_o** is flopped to align the fetched instruction with its PC value, and is passed onto the ID stage.


Conditional Branch Taken:
-------------------------

In the event that a conditional branch is taken, the IF stage requires two cycles to fetch the instruction corresponding to the branch destination PC.

.. figure:: images/IF_branch_taken.png
   :name: if_branch_taken
   :align: center

In this example, BEQ is taken on the fourth clock cycle, with a branch destination denoted as **jump_addr**. 

After **ID_jump_en_i** is asserted, the IF stage places **jump_addr** on the **IMEM_addr_o** bus on the next rising edge, and the corresponding instruction is fetched on the cycle following that, resulting in a total of four cycles from when the BEQ instruction is fetched.


Jump Taken:
-----------

.. figure:: images/IF_jump.png
    :name: if_jump_taken
    :align: center

Unconditional jumps (JAL and JALR) are handled in the same manner and require four cycles to execute.

Commit message:

documentation update
- added more images
- updated readthedocs

docs/instruction_fetch.rst, after:

.. _instruction_fetch:

Instruction Fetch Stage (IF)
============================

.. figure:: images/toast_IF_simple.jpg
    :name: if_simple
    :align: center

The Instruction Fetch stage (:file:`rtl/toast_IF_stage`) drives the instruction memory interface. It is also responsible for passing new instructions and corresponding PC value to the ID stage. The instruction memory is word-addressable and misaligned access is not allowed.


Normal Operation:
-----------------

.. figure:: images/IF.png
    :name: if_timing
    :align: center

As seen in the timing diagram, the IF stage places instruction addresses on the **IMEM_addr_o** bus. On the next clock edge, the instruction memory places the corresponding instruction on the **IMEM_data_i** bus. 

The instruction address on **IMEM_addr_o** is flopped to align the fetched instruction with its PC value, and is passed onto the ID stage.


Conditional Branch Taken:
-------------------------

In the event that a conditional branch is taken, the IF stage requires two cycles to fetch the instruction corresponding to the branch destination PC.

.. figure:: images/IF_branch_taken.png
   :name: if_branch_taken
   :align: center

In this example, BEQ is taken on the fourth clock cycle, with a branch destination denoted as **jump_addr**. 

After **ID_jump_en_i** is asserted, the IF stage places **jump_addr** on the **IMEM_addr_o** bus on the next rising edge, and the corresponding instruction is fetched on the cycle following that, resulting in a total of four cycles from when the BEQ instruction is fetched.


Jump Taken:
-----------

.. figure:: images/IF_jump.png
    :name: if_jump_taken
    :align: center

Unconditional jumps (JAL and JALR) are handled in the same manner and require four cycles to execute after being fetched.
